## Introduction


Bike-sharing system is an important mode in sustainable transportation modes. Great attention is put to improve such systems to increase their demand and maximize their environmental benefits along with other societal benefits. To study the demand of this system, London Bike-sharing system sis explored. The purpose of this study is to predict ranges of new bike counts each hour based on certain factors provided in the dataset. 
The aim of this report is to create a predictive model using machine learning to predict bike counts in a given hour in London city which is useful for planning and operation forecasting of bike-sharing system. The exploratory data analysis using graphical and statistical tools in Python were used to derive preliminary conclusions about the dataset by analyzing the results of the tools used. 
The dataset provided was acquired from three sources, to include the new bike counts in each hour, the weather conditions, and the holidays. 
The data from cycling dataset is grouped by "start time", and it represents the count of new bike shares grouped by hour. The long duration shares are not taken in the count.”
The data sample analyzed in this project is collected between January 1st, 2015 to January 1st, 2017 in London, UK and it includes the following parameters:
-	Timestamp (year, month, day, hour)
-	Cnt:  the count of a new bike shares
-	T1: temperature measure taken in degree Celsius
-	T2: temperature feels 
-	Hum: humidity percentage
-	Wind_speed: in Km/hr 	
-	Weather_code: 1 = Clear ; mostly clear but have some values with haze/fog/patches of fog/ fog in vicinity 2 = scattered clouds / few clouds 3 = Broken clouds 4 = Cloudy 7 = Rain/ light Rain shower/ Light rain 10 = rain with thunderstorm 26 = snowfall 94 = Freezing Fog
-	Is_holiday: 1 if it is a holiday, 0 if it is not. 
-	Is_weekend: 1 if it is a weekend, 0 if it is not. 	
-	Season: 0: Spring, 1: Summer, 2: Fall, 3: Winter
The sections below include literature review, description of methods, results, discussion and conclusion. 
