

## Discussion



![**Plot of the actual and predicted bike counts with respect to month.**
Loaded from the latest version of image on GitHub.](https://github.com/Jingzi2020/CEE498_2020_G1/blob/master/content/images/Act_Pred_month.png "Square image")



![**Plot of the actual and predicted bike counts with respect to month.**
Loaded from the latest version of image on GitHub.](https://github.com/Jingzi2020/CEE498_2020_G1/blob/master/content/images/Act_Pred_timestamp.png "Square image")


## Conclusion



<!-- an arbitrary comment. visible in input, but not visible in output. -->


## References

 [1] Z. Kang, Y. Zuo, Z. Huang, F. Zhou and P. Chen, "Research on the Forecast of Shared Bicycle Rental Demand Based on Spark Machine Learning Framework," 2017 16th International Symposium on Distributed Computing and Applications to Business, Engineering and Science (DCABES), Anyang, 2017, pp. 219-222, doi: 10.1109/DCABES.2017.55. 

[2] F. Lin, S. Wang, J. Jiang, W. Fan and Y. Sun, "Predicting public bicycle rental number using multi-source data," 2017 International Joint Conference on Neural Networks (IJCNN), Anchorage, AK, 2017, pp. 1502-1509, doi: 10.1109/IJCNN.2017.7966030. 

[3] J. Huang, X. Wang and H. Sun, "Central Station Based Demand Prediction in a Bike Sharing System," 2019 20th IEEE International Conference on Mobile Data Management (MDM), Hong Kong, Hong Kong, 2019, pp. 346-348, doi: 10.1109/MDM.2019.00-38. 

[4] https://www.kaggle.com/hmavrodiev/london-bike-sharing-dataset

[5] Ashqar, H. I., Elhenawy, M., Rakha, H. A., Road, V. P., & Qld, K. G. "Case Studies on Transport Policy Modeling bike counts in a bike-sharing system considering the e ff ect of weather conditions," 2019. Case Studies on Transport Policy, 7(2), 261–268. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cstp.2019.02.011

[6] F. Lin, S. Wang, J. Jiang, W. Fan and Y. Sun, "Predicting public bicycle rental number using multi-source data," 2017 International Joint Conference on Neural Networks (IJCNN), Anchorage, AK, 2017, pp. 1502-1509, doi: 10.1109/IJCNN.2017.7966030.



### Referencing figures, tables, equations

Figure @fig:square-image

Figure @fig:wide-image

Figure @fig:tall-image

Figure @fig:vector-image

Table @tbl:bowling-scores

Equation @eq:regular-equation

Equation @eq:long-equation


### Figures

![
**A square image at actual size and with a bottom caption.**
Loaded from the latest version of image on GitHub.
](https://github.com/manubot/resources/raw/15493970f8882fce22bef829619d3fb37a613ba5/test/square.png "Square image"){#fig:square-image}



### Equations

A LaTeX equation:

$$\int_0^\infty e^{-x^2} dx=\frac{\sqrt{\pi}}{2}$$ {#eq:regular-equation}

An equation too long to fit within page:

$$x = a + b + c + d + e + f + g + h + i + j + k + l + m + n + o + p + q + r + s + t + u + v + w + x + y + z + 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5 + 6 + 7 + 8 + 9$$ {#eq:long-equation}


